#Critique By Redesign    
##The Original Visualization    
[The Living Wage Gap](https://www.statista.com/chart/25574/living-wage-vs-minimum-wage-by-us-state/)    
I chose this visualization because I thought it was rather middle-of-the-road in terms of quality (neither the worst I've seen nor the greatest),
 so it had potential for improvement, and it met the requirements of the assignment. It is possible that this visualization has been critiqued before, but I haven't found
 any critiques. The data cited is still publicly available (found [here](https://livingwage.mit.edu)) and the visualization itself is still publicly available.   

Although I find myself rather neutral when it comes to a debate over the minimum wage, I thought the data were interesting and was curious to see if
I could find any regional patterns. I believe I did, which makes the project somewhat rewarding for me, personally. Although I did not include this in my final visualization
 as I thought it would be a little overwhelming, I found it interesting to see how which states were "bad" and "good" shifted slightly when I switched from dollar amounts
 to percentatges.    

##My Journey    
I wasn't sure whether Tableau or Flourish would be my prefered tool for making this visualization, so I started with both. After some time working in Flourish, I ran
 into some difficulty getting particulars of the data to render as I preferred, so I switched to Tableau. Tableau rendered these things the way I envisioned, so that was my
 tool for the rest of the project.

For the initial notebook sketch, it was very much so a "sketch". I picked one color and then labeled which states got which shades... which I altered for my final product. I
received constructive criticism from two classmates, who made some of the following suggestions (paraphrased):   
- Including the number with each state was a good way to highlight state differences
- The color choice will matter a lot
- The title was invaluable
- Including a source on what "living wage" means would be valuable
- Including a caption or paragraph on what a "living wage" is would be valuable
- Updating the data to the current year is a good idea
- Neither student felt strongly about listing the percentage or the literaly dollar difference

While I intuitively knew what I wanted my final product to look like, working through the critique exercise helped me articulate why. I considered the original
 visualization rather mediocre, but the scaling system forced me to quanitfy why I did. Here's what I wrote about my initial observations:
>It kind of reminds me of those round stickers people use at garage sales and such. It was kind of challenging to locate some of the states (NC, for instance). The color
scheme indicated a state of alarm. If the call to action is to demand an increase in the minimum wage, these colors were effective. The first time I looked at it,
I got so distracted trying to make sense of the map I lost track of what the dollars were measuring. The elements were all present, but I didn't have a great time following
them during my first viewing. I was also mildly annoyed that ONLY the gap was mapped and I, as a reader, had no way of seeing what the living wage or the minimum wage
actually was for each state.

Concerning the target audience, these were my thoughts:
> Americans. I think it's marginally effective. Americans like finding their state on a map (at least according to some of the class readings), but this visualization
makes some of the states hard to find. The color scheme will signal to Americans that the minimum wage is too low when it is far below the cost of living, and if that was
the author's intention, then it was well executed.

I continued with what I thought I'd like to alter:
> I'd like to change the map to make it actual states and alter the color scheme to be less obnoxious. Keeping the map makes it interesting and lets a reader draw conclusions
about different regions of the country, rather than only individual states. Relating to the color scheme, the author does not provide any analysis as to whether the cost of
living increases when minimum wage is increased and if there is an "ideal gap" between a living wage and minimum wage. Instead, the colors feed the reader the conclusion that
any gap is bad, and a big gap is worse. Also, since the cost of living and therefore the value of a dollar varies state-to-state, I don't think that measuring the gap in raw
dollar amounts is the best way to communicate this gap. I'd like to use percentages instead. Finally, the original visualization was from 2021. I'm going to use current data
from the same source.


I didn't love the new critique method, but I didn't think it was terrible, either. It felt a little spaghetti-like to me, but perhaps I'm just not accustomed to it.

I pretty much stuck with my initial resolutions. The only real addition to the end state was the information that displays in the Tooltip over each state. I also changed
the colors... multiple times. Although I knew I didn't really like the red-yellow-orange scheme, it took me a while to decide on what scheme I *did* like. I elected for
a color that was cooler, but not as cold as blue or as positive as green. I didn't want to suggest that a large gap is a good thing, but I'm not an activist trying to
increase the minimum wage, either, so I didn't want to use alarmist colors.

